english/common_sense.md, before:

# Common sense

Common sense reasoning tasks are intended to require the model to go beyond pattern 
recognition. Instead, the model should use "common sense" or world knowledge
to make inferences.

### Event2Mind

Event2Mind is a crowdsourced corpus of 25,000 event phrases covering a diverse range of everyday events and situations.
Given an event described in a short free-form text, a model should reason about the likely intents and reactions of the
event's participants. Models are evaluated based on average cross-entropy (lower is better).

| Model           | Dev  | Test  |  Paper / Source | Code | 
| ------------- | :-----:| :-----:|--- | --- | 
| BiRNN 100d (Rashkin et al., 2018) | 4.25 | 4.22 | [Event2Mind: Commonsense Inference on Events, Intents, and Reactions](https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.06939) | |
| ConvNet (Rashkin et al., 2018) | 4.44 | 4.40 | [Event2Mind: Commonsense Inference on Events, Intents, and Reactions](https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.06939) | |

### SWAG

Situations with Adversarial Generations (SWAG) is a dataset consisting of 113k multiple
choice questions about a rich spectrum of grounded situations.

| Model           | Dev  | Test  |  Paper / Source | Code | 
| ------------- | :-----:| :-----:|--- | --- | 
| BERT Large (Devlin et al., 2018) | 86.6 | 86.3 | [BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding](https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.04805) | |
| BERT Base (Devlin et al., 2018) | 81.6 | - | [BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding](https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.04805) | |
| ESIM + ELMo (Zellers et al., 2018) | 59.1 | 59.2 | [SWAG: A Large-Scale Adversarial Dataset for Grounded Commonsense Inference](http://arxiv.org/abs/1808.05326) |  |
| ESIM + GloVe (Zellers et al., 2018) | 51.9 | 52.7 | [SWAG: A Large-Scale Adversarial Dataset for Grounded Commonsense Inference](http://arxiv.org/abs/1808.05326) |  |

### Winograd Schema Challenge

The [Winograd Schema Challenge](https://www.aaai.org/ocs/index.php/KR/KR12/paper/view/4492)
is a dataset for common sense reasoning. It employs Winograd Schema questions that
require the resolution of anaphora: the system must identify the antecedent of an ambiguous pronoun in a statement. Models
are evaluated based on accuracy.

Example:

The trophy doesn’t fit in the suitcase because _it_ is too big. What is too big?
Answer 0: the trophy. Answer 1: the suitcase

| Model           | Score  |  Paper / Source | Code |
| ------------- | :-----:| --- | --- |
| XLNet-Large (ensemble) (Yang et al., 2019) | 90.4 | [XLNet: Generalized Autoregressive Pretraining for Language Understanding](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1906.08237.pdf) | [Official](https://github.com/zihangdai/xlnet/) |
| MT-DNN-ensemble (Liu et al., 2019) | 89.0 | [Improving Multi-Task Deep Neural Networks via Knowledge Distillation for Natural Language Understanding](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1904.09482.pdf) | [Official](https://github.com/namisan/mt-dnn/) |
| Snorkel MeTaL(ensemble) (Ratner et al., 2018) | 65.1 | [Training Complex Models with Multi-Task Weak Supervision](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1810.02840.pdf) | [Official](https://github.com/HazyResearch/metal) |
| Word-LM-partial (Trinh and Le, 2018) | 62.6 | [A Simple Method for Commonsense Reasoning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1806.02847) | |
| Char-LM-partial (Trinh and Le, 2018) | 57.9 | [A Simple Method for Commonsense Reasoning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1806.02847) | |
| USSM + Supervised DeepNet + KB (Liu et al., 2017) | 52.8 | [Combing Context and Commonsense Knowledge Through Neural Networks for Solving Winograd Schema Problems](https://aaai.org/ocs/index.php/SSS/SSS17/paper/view/15392) | |

### Visual Common Sense

Visual Commonsense Reasoning (VCR) is a new task and large-scale dataset for cognition-level visual understanding.
With one glance at an image, we can effortlessly imagine the world beyond the pixels (e.g. that [person1] ordered 
pancakes). While this task is easy for humans, it is tremendously difficult for today's vision systems, requiring 
higher-order cognition and commonsense reasoning about the world. We formalize this task as Visual Commonsense 
Reasoning. In addition to answering challenging visual questions expressed in natural language, a model must provide a 
rationale explaining why its answer is true.

| Model | Q->A  | QA->R  | Q->AR  | Paper / Source | Code |
| ------ | :-------:| :-------: | :-------:| ------ |  ------ | 
| Human Performance University of Washington (Zellers et al. '18) | 91.0 | 93.0 | 85.0 | [From Recognition to Cognition: Visual Commonsense Reasoning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.10830) | | 
| Recognition to Cognition Networks University of Washington | 65.1 | 67.3 | 44.0 | [From Recognition to Cognition: Visual Commonsense Reasoning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.10830) |  https://github.com/rowanz/r2c |
| BERT-Base Google AI Language (experiment by Rowan) | 53.9 | 64.5 | 35.0 | | https://github.com/google-research/bert |
| MLB Seoul National University (experiment by Rowan) | 46.2 | 36.8 | 17.2 | | https://github.com/jnhwkim/MulLowBiVQA |
| Random Performance | 25.0 | 25.0 | 6.2 | | |

Commit message:

Added distinction between Winograd Schema Challenge and WNLI

english/common_sense.md, after:

# Common sense

Common sense reasoning tasks are intended to require the model to go beyond pattern 
recognition. Instead, the model should use "common sense" or world knowledge
to make inferences.

### Event2Mind

Event2Mind is a crowdsourced corpus of 25,000 event phrases covering a diverse range of everyday events and situations.
Given an event described in a short free-form text, a model should reason about the likely intents and reactions of the
event's participants. Models are evaluated based on average cross-entropy (lower is better).

| Model           | Dev  | Test  |  Paper / Source | Code | 
| ------------- | :-----:| :-----:|--- | --- | 
| BiRNN 100d (Rashkin et al., 2018) | 4.25 | 4.22 | [Event2Mind: Commonsense Inference on Events, Intents, and Reactions](https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.06939) | |
| ConvNet (Rashkin et al., 2018) | 4.44 | 4.40 | [Event2Mind: Commonsense Inference on Events, Intents, and Reactions](https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.06939) | |

### SWAG

Situations with Adversarial Generations (SWAG) is a dataset consisting of 113k multiple
choice questions about a rich spectrum of grounded situations.

| Model           | Dev  | Test  |  Paper / Source | Code | 
| ------------- | :-----:| :-----:|--- | --- | 
| BERT Large (Devlin et al., 2018) | 86.6 | 86.3 | [BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding](https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.04805) | |
| BERT Base (Devlin et al., 2018) | 81.6 | - | [BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding](https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.04805) | |
| ESIM + ELMo (Zellers et al., 2018) | 59.1 | 59.2 | [SWAG: A Large-Scale Adversarial Dataset for Grounded Commonsense Inference](http://arxiv.org/abs/1808.05326) |  |
| ESIM + GloVe (Zellers et al., 2018) | 51.9 | 52.7 | [SWAG: A Large-Scale Adversarial Dataset for Grounded Commonsense Inference](http://arxiv.org/abs/1808.05326) |  |

### Winograd Schema Challenge

The [Winograd Schema Challenge](https://www.aaai.org/ocs/index.php/KR/KR12/paper/view/4492)
is a dataset for common sense reasoning. It employs Winograd Schema questions that
require the resolution of anaphora: the system must identify the antecedent of an ambiguous pronoun in a statement. Models
are evaluated based on accuracy.

Example:

The trophy doesn’t fit in the suitcase because _it_ is too big. What is too big?
Answer 0: the trophy. Answer 1: the suitcase

| Model           | Score  |  Paper / Source | Code |
| ------------- | :-----:| --- | --- |
| Word-LM-partial (Trinh and Le, 2018) | 62.6 | [A Simple Method for Commonsense Reasoning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1806.02847) | |
| Char-LM-partial (Trinh and Le, 2018) | 57.9 | [A Simple Method for Commonsense Reasoning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1806.02847) | |
| USSM + Supervised DeepNet + KB (Liu et al., 2017) | 52.8 | [Combing Context and Commonsense Knowledge Through Neural Networks for Solving Winograd Schema Problems](https://aaai.org/ocs/index.php/SSS/SSS17/paper/view/15392) | |

### Winograd NLI (WNLI)

WNLI is a relaxation of the Winograd Schema Challenge proposed as part of the [GLUE benchmark](https://arxiv.org/abs/1804.07461) and a conversion to the natural language inference (NLI) format. The task is to predict if the sentence with the pronoun substituted is entailed by the original sentence. While the training set is balanced between two classes (entailment and not entailment), the test set is imbalanced between them (35% entailment, 65% not entailment). The majority baseline is thus 65%, while for the Winograd Schema Challenge it is 50% ([Liu et al., 2017](https://www.aaai.org/ocs/index.php/SSS/SSS17/paper/view/15392)). The latter is more challenging.

Results are available at the [GLUE leaderboard](https://gluebenchmark.com/leaderboard). Here is a subset of results of recent models:

| Model           | Score  |  Paper / Source | Code |
| ------------- | :-----:| --- | --- |
| XLNet-Large (ensemble) (Yang et al., 2019) | 90.4 | [XLNet: Generalized Autoregressive Pretraining for Language Understanding](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1906.08237.pdf) | [Official](https://github.com/zihangdai/xlnet/) |
| MT-DNN-ensemble (Liu et al., 2019) | 89.0 | [Improving Multi-Task Deep Neural Networks via Knowledge Distillation for Natural Language Understanding](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1904.09482.pdf) | [Official](https://github.com/namisan/mt-dnn/) |
| Snorkel MeTaL(ensemble) (Ratner et al., 2018) | 65.1 | [Training Complex Models with Multi-Task Weak Supervision](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1810.02840.pdf) | [Official](https://github.com/HazyResearch/metal) |

### Visual Common Sense

Visual Commonsense Reasoning (VCR) is a new task and large-scale dataset for cognition-level visual understanding.
With one glance at an image, we can effortlessly imagine the world beyond the pixels (e.g. that [person1] ordered 
pancakes). While this task is easy for humans, it is tremendously difficult for today's vision systems, requiring 
higher-order cognition and commonsense reasoning about the world. We formalize this task as Visual Commonsense 
Reasoning. In addition to answering challenging visual questions expressed in natural language, a model must provide a 
rationale explaining why its answer is true.

| Model | Q->A  | QA->R  | Q->AR  | Paper / Source | Code |
| ------ | :-------:| :-------: | :-------:| ------ |  ------ | 
| Human Performance University of Washington (Zellers et al. '18) | 91.0 | 93.0 | 85.0 | [From Recognition to Cognition: Visual Commonsense Reasoning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.10830) | | 
| Recognition to Cognition Networks University of Washington | 65.1 | 67.3 | 44.0 | [From Recognition to Cognition: Visual Commonsense Reasoning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.10830) |  https://github.com/rowanz/r2c |
| BERT-Base Google AI Language (experiment by Rowan) | 53.9 | 64.5 | 35.0 | | https://github.com/google-research/bert |
| MLB Seoul National University (experiment by Rowan) | 46.2 | 36.8 | 17.2 | | https://github.com/jnhwkim/MulLowBiVQA |
| Random Performance | 25.0 | 25.0 | 6.2 | | |
