english/relationship_extraction.md, before:

# Relationship Extraction

Relationship extraction is the task of extracting semantic relationships from a text. Extracted relationships usually
occur between two or more entities of a certain type (e.g. Person, Organisation, Location) and fall into a number of
semantic categories (e.g. married to, employed by, lives in).

### Capturing discriminative attributes (SemEval 2018 Task 10)

**Capturing discriminative attributes (SemEval 2018 Task 10)** is a binary classification task where participants were asked to identify whether an attribute could help discriminate between two concepts. Unlike other word similarity prediction tasks, this task focuses on the semantic differences between words.

e.g. red(attribute) can be used to discriminate apple (concept1) from banana (concept2) -> label 1

More examples:

| Attribute | concept1 | concept2 | label |
| --------- | -------- | -------- | ----- |
| bookcase | fridge | wood | 1 |
| bucket | mug | round | 0 |
| angle | curve | sharp | 1 |
| pelican | turtle | water | 0 |
| wire | coil | metal | 0 |

Task paper: [https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/S18-1117](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/S18-1117)

Task Codalab: [https://competitions.codalab.org/competitions/17326](https://competitions.codalab.org/competitions/17326)

| Model | Explainability | F1 Score | Paper / Source | Code |
| ----- | -------------- | -------- | -------------- | ---- |
| **SVM** with GloVe                                                                            | **None**           | **0.76** | [SUNNYNLP at SemEval-2018 Task 10: A Support-Vector-Machine-Based Method for Detecting Semantic Difference using Taxonomy and Word Embedding Features](https://aclweb.org/anthology/S18-1118) | [Author's](https://github.com/Yermouth/sunnynlp)                    |
| **SVM** with ConceptNet, Wikipedia articles and WordNet synonyms                              | None               | 0.74     | [Luminoso at SemEval-2018 Task 10: Distinguishing Attributes Using Text Corpora and Relational Knowledge](https://aclweb.org/anthology/S18-1162)                                              | [Author's](https://github.com/LuminosoInsight/semeval-discriminatt) |
| **MLP** combining information from various DSMs, PMI, and ConceptNet                          | None               | 0.73     | [THU NGN at SemEval-2018 Task 10: Capturing Discriminative Attributes with MLP-CNN model](https://aclweb.org/anthology/S18-1157)                                                              |                                                                     |
| **Gradient boosting** with co-occurrence count features and JoBimText features                | None               | 0.73     | [BomJi at SemEval-2018 Task 10: Combining Vector-, Pattern- and Graph-based Information to Identify Discriminative Attributes](https://aclweb.org/anthology/S18-1163)                         |                                                                     |
| LexVec, word co-occurrence, and ConceptNet data combined using **maximum entropy classifier** | None               | 0.72     | [UWB at SemEval-2018 Task 10: Capturing Discriminative Attributes from Word Distributions](https://aclweb.org/anthology/S18-1153)                                                             | [Author's](https://github.com/dpaperno/DiscriminAtt)                |
| Composes explicit **vector spaces** from WordNet Definitions, ConceptNet and Visual Genome    | **Fully Explainable**  | **0.69** | [Identifying and Explaining Discriminative Attributes](https://arxiv.org/abs/1909.05363)                                                                                                      | [Author's](https://github.com/ab-10/Hawk)                           |
| **Word2Vec** cosine similarities of WordNet glosses Transp. (No expl.)                        | Transp. (No expl.) | 0.69     | [Meaning space at SemEval-2018 Task 10: Combining explicitly encoded knowledge with information extracted from word embeddings](https://aclweb.org/anthology/S18-1154)                        | [Author's](https://github.com/cltl/meaning_space)                   |
| Use of Wikipedia and ConceptNet Transp. (No expl.)                                            | Transp. (No expl.) | 0.69     | [ELiRF-UPV at SemEval-2018 Task 10: Capturing Discriminative Attributes with Knowledge Graphs and Wikipedia](https://aclweb.org/anthology/S18-1159)                                           |                                                                     |

### FewRel

The Few-Shot Relation Classification Dataset (FewRel) is a different setting from the previous datasets. This dataset consists of 70K sentences expressing 100 relations annotated by crowdworkers on Wikipedia corpus. The few-shot learning task follows the N-way K-shot meta learning setting.

The public leaderboard is available on the [FewRel website](http://www.zhuhao.me/fewrel/).

### FewRel 2

FewRel 2 extends FewRel on (1) Adaptibility to a new  domain with only a hand-ful of instances (2) Ability to detect none-of-the-above relations? The paper is at [ACL Web](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D19-1649.pdf).

The public leaderboard is available on [FewRel 2 website](https://thunlp.github.io/2/fewrel2_da.html)

### Multi-Way Classification of Semantic Relations Between Pairs of Nominals (SemEval 2010 Task 8)

[SemEval-2010](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/S10-1006) introduced 'Task 8 - Multi-Way Classification of Semantic
Relations Between Pairs of Nominals'. The task is, given a sentence and two tagged nominals, to predict the relation
between those nominals *and* the direction of the relation. The dataset contains nine general semantic relations
together with a tenth 'OTHER' relation.

Example:
 > There were apples, **pears** and oranges in the **bowl**.

 `(content-container, pears, bowl)`

The main evaluation metric used is macro-averaged F1, averaged across the nine proper relationships (i.e. excluding the
OTHER relation), taking directionality of the relation into account.

Several papers have used additional data (e.g. pre-trained word embeddings, WordNet) to improve performance. The figures
reported here are the highest achieved by the model using any external resources.

#### End-to-End Models

| Model                                  | F1    | Paper / Source  | Code           |
| -------------------------------------- | ----- | --------------- | -------------- |
| *BERT-based Models* |
| Matching-the-Blanks (Baldini Soares et al., 2019) | **89.5** | [Matching the Blanks: Distributional Similarity for Relation Learning](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P19-1279) |
| R-BERT (Wu et al. 2019) | **89.25** | [Enriching Pre-trained Language Model with Entity Information for Relation Classification](https://arxiv.org/abs/1905.08284) | [mickeystroller's Reimplementation](https://github.com/mickeystroller/R-BERT)
| *CNN-based Models* |
| Multi-Attention CNN (Wang et al. 2016) | **88.0** | [Relation Classification via Multi-Level Attention CNNs](http://aclweb.org/anthology/P16-1123) | [lawlietAi's Reimplementation](https://github.com/lawlietAi/relation-classification-via-attention-model) |
| Attention CNN (Huang and Y Shen, 2016) | 84.3<br>85.9<sup>[\*](#footnote)</sup> | [Attention-Based Convolutional Neural Network for Semantic Relation Extraction](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/C16-1238) |
| CR-CNN (dos Santos et al., 2015)       | 84.1  | [Classifying Relations by Ranking with Convolutional Neural Network](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P15-1061) | [pratapbhanu's Reimplementation](https://github.com/pratapbhanu/CRCNN) |
| CNN (Zeng et al., 2014)                | 82.7  | [Relation Classification via Convolutional Deep Neural Network](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/C14-1220) | [roomylee's Reimplementation](https://github.com/roomylee/cnn-relation-extraction) |
| *RNN-based Models* |
| Entity Attention Bi-LSTM (Lee et al., 2019) | **85.2** | [Semantic Relation Classification via Bidirectional LSTM Networks with Entity-aware Attention using Latent Entity Typing](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.08163) | [Official](https://github.com/roomylee/entity-aware-relation-classification) |
| Hierarchical Attention Bi-LSTM (Xiao and C Liu, 2016) | 84.3 | [Semantic Relation Classification via Hierarchical Recurrent Neural Network with Attention](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/C16-1119) |
| Attention Bi-LSTM (Zhou et al., 2016)  | 84.0 | [Attention-Based Bidirectional Long Short-Term Memory Networks for Relation Classification](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P16-2034) | [SeoSangwoo's Reimplementation](https://github.com/SeoSangwoo/Attention-Based-BiLSTM-relation-extraction) |
| Bi-LSTM (Zhang et al., 2015)           | 82.7<br>84.3<sup>[\*](#footnote)</sup> | [Bidirectional long short-term memory networks for relation classification](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/Y15-1009) |

<a name="footnote">*</a>: It uses external lexical resources, such as WordNet, part-of-speech tags, dependency tags, and named entity tags.

#### Dependency Models

| Model                               | F1    | Paper / Source  | Code           |
| ----------------------------------- | ----- | --------------- | -------------- |
| BRCNN (Cai et al., 2016)            | **86.3**  | [Bidirectional Recurrent Convolutional Neural Network for Relation Classification](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P16-1072) |
| DRNNs (Xu et al., 2016)             | 86.1  | [Improved Relation Classification by Deep Recurrent Neural Networks with Data Augmentation](https://arxiv.org/abs/1601.03651) |
| depLCNN + NS (Xu et al., 2015a)     | 85.6 | [Semantic Relation Classification via Convolutional Neural Networks with Simple Negative Sampling](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D/D15/D15-1062.pdf) |
| SDP-LSTM (Xu et al., 2015b)         | 83.7  | [Classifying Relations via Long Short Term Memory Networks along Shortest Dependency Path](https://arxiv.org/abs/1508.03720) | [Sshanu's Reimplementation](https://github.com/Sshanu/Relation-Classification) |
| DepNN (Liu et al., 2015)            | 83.6  | [A Dependency-Based Neural Network for Relation Classification](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P15-2047) |
| FCN (Yu et al., 2014)               | 83.0  | [Factor-based compositional embedding models](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~mgormley/papers/yu+gormley+dredze.nipsw.2014.pdf) |
| MVRNN (Socher et al., 2012)         | 82.4  | [Semantic Compositionality through Recursive Matrix-Vector Spaces](http://aclweb.org/anthology/D12-1110) | [pratapbhanu's Reimplementation](https://github.com/pratapbhanu/MVRNN) |

### New York Times Corpus

The standard corpus for distantly supervised relationship extraction is the New York Times (NYT) corpus, published in
[Riedel et al, 2010](http://www.riedelcastro.org//publications/papers/riedel10modeling.pdf).

This contains text from the [New York Times Annotated Corpus](https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/ldc2008t19) with named
entities extracted from the text using the Stanford NER system and automatically linked to entities in the Freebase
knowledge base. Pairs of named entities are labelled with relationship types by aligning them against facts in the
Freebase knowledge base. (The process of using a separate database to provide label is known as 'distant supervision')

Example:
 > **Elevation Partners**, the $1.9 billion private equity group that was founded by **Roger McNamee**

 `(founded_by, Elevation_Partners, Roger_McNamee)`

Different papers have reported various metrics since the release of the dataset, making it difficult to compare systems
directly. The main metrics used are either precision at N results or plots of the precision-recall. The range of recall
has increased over the years as systems improve, with earlier systems having very low precision at 30% recall.


| Model                               | P@10% | P@30% | Paper / Source | Code           |
| ----------------------------------- | ----- | ----- | --------------- | -------------- |
| HRERE (Xu et al., 2019) | 84.9 | 72.8 | [Connecting Language and Knowledge with Heterogeneous Representations for Neural Relation Extraction](https://arxiv.org/abs/1903.10126) | [HRERE](https://github.com/billy-inn/HRERE) |
| PCNN+noise_convert+cond_opt (Wu et al., 2019)         | 81.7   | 61.8   | [Improving Distantly Supervised Relation Extraction with Neural Noise Converter and Conditional Optimal Selector](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1811.05616.pdf) |  |
| Intra- and Inter-Bag (Ye and Ling, 2019)         | 78.9   | 62.4   | [Distant Supervision Relation Extraction with Intra-Bag and Inter-Bag Attentions](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1904.00143.pdf) | [Code](https://github.com/ZhixiuYe/Intra-Bag-and-Inter-Bag-Attentions) |
| RESIDE (Vashishth et al., 2018)         | 73.6   | 59.5   | [RESIDE: Improving Distantly-Supervised Neural Relation Extraction using Side Information](http://malllabiisc.github.io/publications/papers/reside_emnlp18.pdf) | [RESIDE](https://github.com/malllabiisc/RESIDE) |
| PCNN+ATT (Lin et al., 2016)         | 69.4   | 51.8   | [Neural Relation Extraction with Selective Attention over Instances](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P16-1200) | [OpenNRE](https://github.com/thunlp/OpenNRE/) |
| MIML-RE (Surdeneau et al., 2012)    | 60.7+  |   -   | [Multi-instance Multi-label Learning for Relation Extraction](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D12-1042) | [Mimlre](https://nlp.stanford.edu/software/mimlre.shtml) |
| MultiR (Hoffman et al., 2011)       | 60.9+  |   -   | [Knowledge-Based Weak Supervision for Information Extraction of Overlapping Relations](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P11-1055) | [MultiR](http://aiweb.cs.washington.edu/ai/raphaelh/mr/) |
| (Mintz et al., 2009)                | 39.9+  |   -   | [Distant supervision for relation extraction without labeled data](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P09-1113) | |

(+) Obtained from results in the paper "Neural Relation Extraction with Selective Attention over Instances"

#### Joint Entity and Relation Extraction

In this task binary relation tuples (two entities and a relation between them) are jointly extracted from sentences. The input to the models is just the sentences and a set of relations, output is a set of relation tuples. Models should extract all relation tuples present in the sentences with full entity names and overlapping entities. F1 score is used to evaluate the models. An extracted tuple is considered as correct if the two entities and the relation match with a ground truth tuple.

##### NYT29

This dataset is derived from the New York Times dataset of [Riedel et al., 2010](http://www.riedelcastro.org//publications/papers/riedel10modeling.pdf). It has 29 relations. 

| Model           | F1  |  Paper / Source | Code |
| ------------- | ----- | --- | --- |
| WDec (Nayak and Ng, 2020) | 0.682 | [Effective Modeling of Encoder-Decoder Architecture for Joint Entity and Relation Extraction](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1911.09886.pdf) | [PtrNetDecoding4JERE](https://github.com/nusnlp/PtrNetDecoding4JERE) |
| PNDec (Nayak and Ng, 2020) | 0.673 | [Effective Modeling of Encoder-Decoder Architecture for Joint Entity and Relation Extraction](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1911.09886.pdf) | [PtrNetDecoding4JERE](https://github.com/nusnlp/PtrNetDecoding4JERE) |
| HRLRE (Takanobu et at., 2019) | 0.643 | [A Hierarchical Framework for Relation Extraction with Reinforcement Learning](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1811.03925.pdf) | [HRLRE](https://github.com/truthless11/HRL-RE) |

##### NYT24

This dataset is derived from the New York Times dataset of [Hoffman et al., 2011](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P11-1055.pdf). It has 24 relations. 

| Model           | F1  |  Paper / Source | Code |
| ------------- | ----- | --- | --- |
| WDec (Nayak and Ng, 2020) | 0.817 | [Effective Modeling of Encoder-Decoder Architecture for Joint Entity and Relation Extraction](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1911.09886.pdf) | [PtrNetDecoding4JERE](https://github.com/nusnlp/PtrNetDecoding4JERE) |
| PNDec (Nayak and Ng, 2020) | 0.789 | [Effective Modeling of Encoder-Decoder Architecture for Joint Entity and Relation Extraction](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1911.09886.pdf) | [PtrNetDecoding4JERE](https://github.com/nusnlp/PtrNetDecoding4JERE) |
| HRLRE (Takanobu et at., 2019) | 0.776 | [A Hierarchical Framework for Relation Extraction with Reinforcement Learning](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1811.03925.pdf) | [HRLRE](https://github.com/truthless11/HRL-RE) |

### TACRED

[TACRED](https://nlp.stanford.edu/projects/tacred/) is a large-scale relation extraction dataset with 106,264 examples built over newswire and web text from the [corpus](https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/LDC2018T03) used in the yearly [TAC Knowledge Base Population (TAC KBP) challenges](https://tac.nist.gov/2017/KBP/index.html). Examples in TACRED cover 41 relation types as used in the TAC KBP challenges (e.g., _per:schools_attended_ and _org:members_) or are labeled as _no_relation_ if no defined relation is held. These examples are created by combining available human annotations from the TAC KBP challenges and crowdsourcing.

Example:
 > *Billy Mays*, the bearded, boisterious pitchman who, as the undisputed king of TV yell and sell, became an inlikely pop culture icon, died at his home in *Tampa*, Fla, on Sunday. 

 `(per:city_of_death, Billy Mays, Tampa)`

The main evaluation metric used is micro-averaged F1 over instances with proper relationships (i.e. excluding the
_no_relation_ type).

| Model                                  | F1    | Paper / Source  | Code           |
| -------------------------------------- | ----- | --------------- | -------------- |
| LUKE (Yamada et al., 2020) | **72.7** | [LUKE: Deep Contextualized Entity Representations with Entity-aware Self-attention](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/2020.emnlp-main.523) | [Official](https://github.com/studio-ousia/luke) |
| Matching-the-Blanks (Baldini Soares et al., 2019) | 71.5 | [Matching the Blanks: Distributional Similarity for Relation Learning](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P19-1279) |
| C-GCN + PA-LSTM (Zhang et al. 2018) | 68.2 | [Graph Convolution over Pruned Dependency Trees Improves Relation Extraction](http://aclweb.org/anthology/D18-1244) | [Offical](https://github.com/qipeng/gcn-over-pruned-trees) |
| PA-LSTM (Zhang et al, 2017) | 65.1 | [Position-aware Attention and Supervised Data Improve Slot Filling](http://aclweb.org/anthology/D17-1004) | [Official](https://github.com/yuhaozhang/tacred-relation) |

[Go back to the README](../README.md)

Commit message:

Updated SOTA NYT freebase and new dataset with SOTA for RE (#527)

english/relationship_extraction.md, after:

# Relationship Extraction

Relationship extraction is the task of extracting semantic relationships from a text. Extracted relationships usually
occur between two or more entities of a certain type (e.g. Person, Organisation, Location) and fall into a number of
semantic categories (e.g. married to, employed by, lives in).

### Capturing discriminative attributes (SemEval 2018 Task 10)

**Capturing discriminative attributes (SemEval 2018 Task 10)** is a binary classification task where participants were asked to identify whether an attribute could help discriminate between two concepts. Unlike other word similarity prediction tasks, this task focuses on the semantic differences between words.

e.g. red(attribute) can be used to discriminate apple (concept1) from banana (concept2) -> label 1

More examples:

| Attribute | concept1 | concept2 | label |
| --------- | -------- | -------- | ----- |
| bookcase | fridge | wood | 1 |
| bucket | mug | round | 0 |
| angle | curve | sharp | 1 |
| pelican | turtle | water | 0 |
| wire | coil | metal | 0 |

Task paper: [https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/S18-1117](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/S18-1117)

Task Codalab: [https://competitions.codalab.org/competitions/17326](https://competitions.codalab.org/competitions/17326)

| Model | Explainability | F1 Score | Paper / Source | Code |
| ----- | -------------- | -------- | -------------- | ---- |
| **SVM** with GloVe                                                                            | **None**           | **0.76** | [SUNNYNLP at SemEval-2018 Task 10: A Support-Vector-Machine-Based Method for Detecting Semantic Difference using Taxonomy and Word Embedding Features](https://aclweb.org/anthology/S18-1118) | [Author's](https://github.com/Yermouth/sunnynlp)                    |
| **SVM** with ConceptNet, Wikipedia articles and WordNet synonyms                              | None               | 0.74     | [Luminoso at SemEval-2018 Task 10: Distinguishing Attributes Using Text Corpora and Relational Knowledge](https://aclweb.org/anthology/S18-1162)                                              | [Author's](https://github.com/LuminosoInsight/semeval-discriminatt) |
| **MLP** combining information from various DSMs, PMI, and ConceptNet                          | None               | 0.73     | [THU NGN at SemEval-2018 Task 10: Capturing Discriminative Attributes with MLP-CNN model](https://aclweb.org/anthology/S18-1157)                                                              |                                                                     |
| **Gradient boosting** with co-occurrence count features and JoBimText features                | None               | 0.73     | [BomJi at SemEval-2018 Task 10: Combining Vector-, Pattern- and Graph-based Information to Identify Discriminative Attributes](https://aclweb.org/anthology/S18-1163)                         |                                                                     |
| LexVec, word co-occurrence, and ConceptNet data combined using **maximum entropy classifier** | None               | 0.72     | [UWB at SemEval-2018 Task 10: Capturing Discriminative Attributes from Word Distributions](https://aclweb.org/anthology/S18-1153)                                                             | [Author's](https://github.com/dpaperno/DiscriminAtt)                |
| Composes explicit **vector spaces** from WordNet Definitions, ConceptNet and Visual Genome    | **Fully Explainable**  | **0.69** | [Identifying and Explaining Discriminative Attributes](https://arxiv.org/abs/1909.05363)                                                                                                      | [Author's](https://github.com/ab-10/Hawk)                           |
| **Word2Vec** cosine similarities of WordNet glosses Transp. (No expl.)                        | Transp. (No expl.) | 0.69     | [Meaning space at SemEval-2018 Task 10: Combining explicitly encoded knowledge with information extracted from word embeddings](https://aclweb.org/anthology/S18-1154)                        | [Author's](https://github.com/cltl/meaning_space)                   |
| Use of Wikipedia and ConceptNet Transp. (No expl.)                                            | Transp. (No expl.) | 0.69     | [ELiRF-UPV at SemEval-2018 Task 10: Capturing Discriminative Attributes with Knowledge Graphs and Wikipedia](https://aclweb.org/anthology/S18-1159)                                           |                                                                     |

### FewRel

The Few-Shot Relation Classification Dataset (FewRel) is a different setting from the previous datasets. This dataset consists of 70K sentences expressing 100 relations annotated by crowdworkers on Wikipedia corpus. The few-shot learning task follows the N-way K-shot meta learning setting.

The public leaderboard is available on the [FewRel website](http://www.zhuhao.me/fewrel/).

### FewRel 2

FewRel 2 extends FewRel on (1) Adaptibility to a new  domain with only a hand-ful of instances (2) Ability to detect none-of-the-above relations? The paper is at [ACL Web](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D19-1649.pdf).

The public leaderboard is available on [FewRel 2 website](https://thunlp.github.io/2/fewrel2_da.html)

### Multi-Way Classification of Semantic Relations Between Pairs of Nominals (SemEval 2010 Task 8)

[SemEval-2010](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/S10-1006) introduced 'Task 8 - Multi-Way Classification of Semantic
Relations Between Pairs of Nominals'. The task is, given a sentence and two tagged nominals, to predict the relation
between those nominals *and* the direction of the relation. The dataset contains nine general semantic relations
together with a tenth 'OTHER' relation.

Example:
 > There were apples, **pears** and oranges in the **bowl**.

 `(content-container, pears, bowl)`

The main evaluation metric used is macro-averaged F1, averaged across the nine proper relationships (i.e. excluding the
OTHER relation), taking directionality of the relation into account.

Several papers have used additional data (e.g. pre-trained word embeddings, WordNet) to improve performance. The figures
reported here are the highest achieved by the model using any external resources.

#### End-to-End Models

| Model                                  | F1    | Paper / Source  | Code           |
| -------------------------------------- | ----- | --------------- | -------------- |
| *BERT-based Models* |
| Matching-the-Blanks (Baldini Soares et al., 2019) | **89.5** | [Matching the Blanks: Distributional Similarity for Relation Learning](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P19-1279) |
| R-BERT (Wu et al. 2019) | **89.25** | [Enriching Pre-trained Language Model with Entity Information for Relation Classification](https://arxiv.org/abs/1905.08284) | [mickeystroller's Reimplementation](https://github.com/mickeystroller/R-BERT)
| *CNN-based Models* |
| Multi-Attention CNN (Wang et al. 2016) | **88.0** | [Relation Classification via Multi-Level Attention CNNs](http://aclweb.org/anthology/P16-1123) | [lawlietAi's Reimplementation](https://github.com/lawlietAi/relation-classification-via-attention-model) |
| Attention CNN (Huang and Y Shen, 2016) | 84.3<br>85.9<sup>[\*](#footnote)</sup> | [Attention-Based Convolutional Neural Network for Semantic Relation Extraction](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/C16-1238) |
| CR-CNN (dos Santos et al., 2015)       | 84.1  | [Classifying Relations by Ranking with Convolutional Neural Network](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P15-1061) | [pratapbhanu's Reimplementation](https://github.com/pratapbhanu/CRCNN) |
| CNN (Zeng et al., 2014)                | 82.7  | [Relation Classification via Convolutional Deep Neural Network](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/C14-1220) | [roomylee's Reimplementation](https://github.com/roomylee/cnn-relation-extraction) |
| *RNN-based Models* |
| Entity Attention Bi-LSTM (Lee et al., 2019) | **85.2** | [Semantic Relation Classification via Bidirectional LSTM Networks with Entity-aware Attention using Latent Entity Typing](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.08163) | [Official](https://github.com/roomylee/entity-aware-relation-classification) |
| Hierarchical Attention Bi-LSTM (Xiao and C Liu, 2016) | 84.3 | [Semantic Relation Classification via Hierarchical Recurrent Neural Network with Attention](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/C16-1119) |
| Attention Bi-LSTM (Zhou et al., 2016)  | 84.0 | [Attention-Based Bidirectional Long Short-Term Memory Networks for Relation Classification](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P16-2034) | [SeoSangwoo's Reimplementation](https://github.com/SeoSangwoo/Attention-Based-BiLSTM-relation-extraction) |
| Bi-LSTM (Zhang et al., 2015)           | 82.7<br>84.3<sup>[\*](#footnote)</sup> | [Bidirectional long short-term memory networks for relation classification](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/Y15-1009) |

<a name="footnote">*</a>: It uses external lexical resources, such as WordNet, part-of-speech tags, dependency tags, and named entity tags.

#### Dependency Models

| Model                               | F1    | Paper / Source  | Code           |
| ----------------------------------- | ----- | --------------- | -------------- |
| BRCNN (Cai et al., 2016)            | **86.3**  | [Bidirectional Recurrent Convolutional Neural Network for Relation Classification](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P16-1072) |
| DRNNs (Xu et al., 2016)             | 86.1  | [Improved Relation Classification by Deep Recurrent Neural Networks with Data Augmentation](https://arxiv.org/abs/1601.03651) |
| depLCNN + NS (Xu et al., 2015a)     | 85.6 | [Semantic Relation Classification via Convolutional Neural Networks with Simple Negative Sampling](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D/D15/D15-1062.pdf) |
| SDP-LSTM (Xu et al., 2015b)         | 83.7  | [Classifying Relations via Long Short Term Memory Networks along Shortest Dependency Path](https://arxiv.org/abs/1508.03720) | [Sshanu's Reimplementation](https://github.com/Sshanu/Relation-Classification) |
| DepNN (Liu et al., 2015)            | 83.6  | [A Dependency-Based Neural Network for Relation Classification](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P15-2047) |
| FCN (Yu et al., 2014)               | 83.0  | [Factor-based compositional embedding models](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~mgormley/papers/yu+gormley+dredze.nipsw.2014.pdf) |
| MVRNN (Socher et al., 2012)         | 82.4  | [Semantic Compositionality through Recursive Matrix-Vector Spaces](http://aclweb.org/anthology/D12-1110) | [pratapbhanu's Reimplementation](https://github.com/pratapbhanu/MVRNN) |

### New York Times Corpus

The standard corpus for distantly supervised relationship extraction is the New York Times (NYT) corpus, published in
[Riedel et al, 2010](http://www.riedelcastro.org//publications/papers/riedel10modeling.pdf).

This contains text from the [New York Times Annotated Corpus](https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/ldc2008t19) with named
entities extracted from the text using the Stanford NER system and automatically linked to entities in the Freebase
knowledge base. Pairs of named entities are labelled with relationship types by aligning them against facts in the
Freebase knowledge base. (The process of using a separate database to provide label is known as 'distant supervision')

Example:
 > **Elevation Partners**, the $1.9 billion private equity group that was founded by **Roger McNamee**

 `(founded_by, Elevation_Partners, Roger_McNamee)`

Different papers have reported various metrics since the release of the dataset, making it difficult to compare systems
directly. The main metrics used are either precision at N results or plots of the precision-recall. The range of recall
has increased over the years as systems improve, with earlier systems having very low precision at 30% recall.


| Model                               | P@10% | P@30% | Paper / Source | Code           |
| ----------------------------------- | ----- | ----- | --------------- | -------------- |
| RECON (Bastos et al., 2021) | 87.5 | 74.1 | [RECON: Relation Extraction using Knowledge Graph Context in a Graph Neural Network](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2009.08694.pdf) | [RECON](https://github.com/ansonb/RECON) |
| HRERE (Xu et al., 2019) | 84.9 | 72.8 | [Connecting Language and Knowledge with Heterogeneous Representations for Neural Relation Extraction](https://arxiv.org/abs/1903.10126) | [HRERE](https://github.com/billy-inn/HRERE) |
| PCNN+noise_convert+cond_opt (Wu et al., 2019)         | 81.7   | 61.8   | [Improving Distantly Supervised Relation Extraction with Neural Noise Converter and Conditional Optimal Selector](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1811.05616.pdf) |  |
| Intra- and Inter-Bag (Ye and Ling, 2019)         | 78.9   | 62.4   | [Distant Supervision Relation Extraction with Intra-Bag and Inter-Bag Attentions](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1904.00143.pdf) | [Code](https://github.com/ZhixiuYe/Intra-Bag-and-Inter-Bag-Attentions) |
| RESIDE (Vashishth et al., 2018)         | 73.6   | 59.5   | [RESIDE: Improving Distantly-Supervised Neural Relation Extraction using Side Information](http://malllabiisc.github.io/publications/papers/reside_emnlp18.pdf) | [RESIDE](https://github.com/malllabiisc/RESIDE) |
| PCNN+ATT (Lin et al., 2016)         | 69.4   | 51.8   | [Neural Relation Extraction with Selective Attention over Instances](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P16-1200) | [OpenNRE](https://github.com/thunlp/OpenNRE/) |
| MIML-RE (Surdeneau et al., 2012)    | 60.7+  |   -   | [Multi-instance Multi-label Learning for Relation Extraction](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D12-1042) | [Mimlre](https://nlp.stanford.edu/software/mimlre.shtml) |
| MultiR (Hoffman et al., 2011)       | 60.9+  |   -   | [Knowledge-Based Weak Supervision for Information Extraction of Overlapping Relations](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P11-1055) | [MultiR](http://aiweb.cs.washington.edu/ai/raphaelh/mr/) |
| (Mintz et al., 2009)                | 39.9+  |   -   | [Distant supervision for relation extraction without labeled data](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P09-1113) | |

(+) Obtained from results in the paper "Neural Relation Extraction with Selective Attention over Instances"

#### WikiData dataset for Sentential Relation Extraction

The sentential RE ignores any other occurrence of the given entity pair, thereby making the target relation predictions on the sentence level ([Sorokin and Gurevych, 2017](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D17-1188.pdf)). The paper introduces a dataset on Wikidata KG containing 353 relations.

| Model                               | F1    | Paper / Source  | Code           |
| ----------------------------------- | ----- | --------------- | -------------- |
| RECON (Bastos et al., 2021)            | **87.23**  | [RECON: Relation Extraction using Knowledge Graph Context in a Graph Neural Network](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2009.08694.pdf) |
| GPGNN (Zhu et al., 2019)             | 82.29  | [Graph Neural Networks with Generated Parameters for Relation Extraction](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P19-1128.pdf) |
| ContextAware (Sorokin and Gurevych, 2017)     | 72.07 | [Context-Aware Representations for Knowledge Base Relation Extraction](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D17-1188.pdf) |

#### Joint Entity and Relation Extraction

In this task binary relation tuples (two entities and a relation between them) are jointly extracted from sentences. The input to the models is just the sentences and a set of relations, output is a set of relation tuples. Models should extract all relation tuples present in the sentences with full entity names and overlapping entities. F1 score is used to evaluate the models. An extracted tuple is considered as correct if the two entities and the relation match with a ground truth tuple.

##### NYT29

This dataset is derived from the New York Times dataset of [Riedel et al., 2010](http://www.riedelcastro.org//publications/papers/riedel10modeling.pdf). It has 29 relations. 

| Model           | F1  |  Paper / Source | Code |
| ------------- | ----- | --- | --- |
| WDec (Nayak and Ng, 2020) | 0.682 | [Effective Modeling of Encoder-Decoder Architecture for Joint Entity and Relation Extraction](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1911.09886.pdf) | [PtrNetDecoding4JERE](https://github.com/nusnlp/PtrNetDecoding4JERE) |
| PNDec (Nayak and Ng, 2020) | 0.673 | [Effective Modeling of Encoder-Decoder Architecture for Joint Entity and Relation Extraction](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1911.09886.pdf) | [PtrNetDecoding4JERE](https://github.com/nusnlp/PtrNetDecoding4JERE) |
| HRLRE (Takanobu et at., 2019) | 0.643 | [A Hierarchical Framework for Relation Extraction with Reinforcement Learning](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1811.03925.pdf) | [HRLRE](https://github.com/truthless11/HRL-RE) |

##### NYT24

This dataset is derived from the New York Times dataset of [Hoffman et al., 2011](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P11-1055.pdf). It has 24 relations. 

| Model           | F1  |  Paper / Source | Code |
| ------------- | ----- | --- | --- |
| WDec (Nayak and Ng, 2020) | 0.817 | [Effective Modeling of Encoder-Decoder Architecture for Joint Entity and Relation Extraction](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1911.09886.pdf) | [PtrNetDecoding4JERE](https://github.com/nusnlp/PtrNetDecoding4JERE) |
| PNDec (Nayak and Ng, 2020) | 0.789 | [Effective Modeling of Encoder-Decoder Architecture for Joint Entity and Relation Extraction](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1911.09886.pdf) | [PtrNetDecoding4JERE](https://github.com/nusnlp/PtrNetDecoding4JERE) |
| HRLRE (Takanobu et at., 2019) | 0.776 | [A Hierarchical Framework for Relation Extraction with Reinforcement Learning](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1811.03925.pdf) | [HRLRE](https://github.com/truthless11/HRL-RE) |

### TACRED

[TACRED](https://nlp.stanford.edu/projects/tacred/) is a large-scale relation extraction dataset with 106,264 examples built over newswire and web text from the [corpus](https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/LDC2018T03) used in the yearly [TAC Knowledge Base Population (TAC KBP) challenges](https://tac.nist.gov/2017/KBP/index.html). Examples in TACRED cover 41 relation types as used in the TAC KBP challenges (e.g., _per:schools_attended_ and _org:members_) or are labeled as _no_relation_ if no defined relation is held. These examples are created by combining available human annotations from the TAC KBP challenges and crowdsourcing.

Example:
 > *Billy Mays*, the bearded, boisterious pitchman who, as the undisputed king of TV yell and sell, became an inlikely pop culture icon, died at his home in *Tampa*, Fla, on Sunday. 

 `(per:city_of_death, Billy Mays, Tampa)`

The main evaluation metric used is micro-averaged F1 over instances with proper relationships (i.e. excluding the
_no_relation_ type).

| Model                                  | F1    | Paper / Source  | Code           |
| -------------------------------------- | ----- | --------------- | -------------- |
| LUKE (Yamada et al., 2020) | **72.7** | [LUKE: Deep Contextualized Entity Representations with Entity-aware Self-attention](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/2020.emnlp-main.523) | [Official](https://github.com/studio-ousia/luke) |
| Matching-the-Blanks (Baldini Soares et al., 2019) | 71.5 | [Matching the Blanks: Distributional Similarity for Relation Learning](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P19-1279) |
| C-GCN + PA-LSTM (Zhang et al. 2018) | 68.2 | [Graph Convolution over Pruned Dependency Trees Improves Relation Extraction](http://aclweb.org/anthology/D18-1244) | [Offical](https://github.com/qipeng/gcn-over-pruned-trees) |
| PA-LSTM (Zhang et al, 2017) | 65.1 | [Position-aware Attention and Supervised Data Improve Slot Filling](http://aclweb.org/anthology/D17-1004) | [Official](https://github.com/yuhaozhang/tacred-relation) |

[Go back to the README](../README.md)
