vietnamese/vietnamese.md, before:

# Vietnamese NLP tasks

## Dependency parsing

* Experiments employ the [benchmark Vietnamese dependency treebank VnDT](http://vndp.sourceforge.net) of 10K+ sentences, using  1,020 sentences for test, 200 sentences for development and the remaining sentences for training. LAS and UAS scores are computed on all tokens (i.e. including punctuation). 

#### VnDT v1.1:

| | Model           | LAS |  UAS  |  Paper | Code | 
| ----- | ------------- | :-----:| --- | --- | --- |
| **Predicted POS** | Biaffine (2017) | 74.99 | 81.19 | [Deep Biaffine Attention for Neural Dependency Parsing](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.01734) |  | 
| **Predicted POS** | jointWPD (2018) | 73.90 | 80.12 | [A neural joint model for Vietnamese word segmentation, POS tagging and dependency parsing](https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.11459)  |  | 
| **Predicted POS** | jPTDP-v2 (2018) |  73.12 | 79.63 | [An improved neural network model for joint POS tagging and dependency parsing](http://aclweb.org/anthology/K18-2008) |  | 
| **Predicted POS** | VnCoreNLP (2018) | 71.38 | 77.35 | [VnCoreNLP: A Vietnamese Natural Language Processing Toolkit](http://aclweb.org/anthology/N18-5012) | [Official](https://github.com/vncorenlp/VnCoreNLP) | 

* Results on the VnDT v1.1 for Biaffine, jPTDP-v2 and VnCoreNLP are reported in the jointWPD paper "[A neural joint model for Vietnamese word segmentation, POS tagging and dependency parsing](https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.11459)."

#### VnDT v1.0:

| | Model           | LAS |  UAS  |  Paper | Code | 
| ----- | ------------- | :-----:| --- | --- | --- |
| **Predicted POS** | VnCoreNLP (2018) | 70.23 | 76.93 | [VnCoreNLP: A Vietnamese Natural Language Processing Toolkit](http://aclweb.org/anthology/N18-5012) | [Official](https://github.com/vncorenlp/VnCoreNLP) | 
| Gold POS | VnCoreNLP (2018) |73.39 |79.02 | [VnCoreNLP: A Vietnamese Natural Language Processing Toolkit](http://aclweb.org/anthology/N18-5012) | [Official](https://github.com/vncorenlp/VnCoreNLP) | 
| Gold POS | BIST BiLSTM graph-based parser (2016) | 73.17|79.39 | [Simple and Accurate Dependency Parsing Using Bidirectional LSTM Feature Representations](https://aclweb.org/anthology/Q16-1023) | [Official](https://github.com/elikip/bist-parser/tree/master/bmstparser/src) | 
| Gold POS | BIST BiLSTM transition-based parser (2016) | 72.53| 79.33 | [Simple and Accurate Dependency Parsing Using Bidirectional LSTM Feature Representations](https://aclweb.org/anthology/Q16-1023) | [Official](https://github.com/elikip/bist-parser/tree/master/barchybrid/src) | 
| Gold POS | MSTparser (2006) | 70.29 | 76.47 | [Online large-margin training of dependency parsers](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P05-1012) | | 
| Gold POS | MaltParser (2007) | 69.10 | 74.91 | [MaltParser: A language-independent system for datadriven dependency parsing](https://stp.lingfil.uu.se/~nivre/docs/nle07.pdf) | | 


* Results for the BIST graph/transition-based parsers, MSTparser and MaltParser are reported in "[An empirical study for Vietnamese dependency parsing](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/U16-1017)."

## Machine translation

### English-Vietnamese translation
* Dataset is from [The IWSLT 2015 Evaluation Campaign](http://workshop2015.iwslt.org/downloads/proceeding.pdf), also be obtained from [https://github.com/tensorflow/nmt](https://github.com/tensorflow/nmt): `tst2012` is used for development while `tst2013` is used for test. Scores are computed for single models.

#### English-to-Vietnamese

| Model           | BLEU  |  Paper | Code | 
| ------------- | :-----:| --- | --- | 
| BPE-Dropout (2019) | 33.3 | [BPE-Dropout: Simple and Effective Subword Regularization](https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.13267) | | 
| Nguyen and Salazar (2019) | 32.8 | [Transformers without Tears: Improving the Normalization of Self-Attention](https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.05895) | [Official](https://github.com/tnq177/transformers_without_tears) | 
| CVT (2018) | 29.6 | [Semi-Supervised Sequence Modeling with Cross-View Training](https://arxiv.org/abs/1809.08370) |  |
| ELMo (2018) | 29.3 | [Deep contextualized word representations](http://aclweb.org/anthology/N18-1202)| | 
| Transformer (2017) | 28.9 | [Attention is all you need](http://papers.nips.cc/paper/7181-attention-is-all-you-need) | [Link](https://github.com/duyvuleo/Transformer-DyNet) | 
| Google (2017) | 26.1 | [Neural machine translation (seq2seq) tutorial](https://github.com/tensorflow/nmt)  | [Official](https://github.com/tensorflow/nmt) | 
| Stanford (2015) |23.3 | [Stanford Neural Machine Translation Systems for Spoken Language Domains](https://nlp.stanford.edu/pubs/luong-manning-iwslt15.pdf) | | 

* The ELMo score is reported in [Semi-Supervised Sequence Modeling with Cross-View Training](https://arxiv.org/abs/1809.08370). The Transformer score is available at  [https://github.com/duyvuleo/Transformer-DyNet](https://github.com/duyvuleo/Transformer-DyNet).

#### Vietnamese-to-English

| Model           | BLEU  |  Paper | Code | 
| ------------- | :-----:| --- | --- | 
| BPE-Dropout (2019) | 32.99 | [BPE-Dropout: Simple and Effective Subword Regularization](https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.13267) | | 


## Named entity recognition
* 16,861 sentences for training and development from the VLSP 2016 NER shared task:
  *  14,861 sentences are used for training.
  *  2k sentences are used for development.
* Test data: 2,831 test sentences from the VLSP 2016 NER  shared task.
* **NOTE** that in the VLSP 2016 NER data, each word representing a full personal name are separated into syllables that constitute the word. The VLSP 2016 NER data also consists of gold POS and chunking tags as [reconfirmed by VLSP 2016 organizers](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1XzrgPw13N4C_B6yrQy_7qIxl8Bqf7Uqi/view?usp=sharing). This scheme results in an unrealistic scenario for a pipeline evaluation: 
  * The standard annotation for Vietnamese word segmentation and POS tagging forms each full name as a word token, thus all   word segmenters have been trained to output a full name as a word and all POS taggers have been trained to assign a POS label to the entire full-name.
  * Gold POS and chunking tags are NOT available in a real-world application.
* For a realistic scenario, contiguous syllables constituting a full name are merged to form a word. POS/chunking tags--if used--have to be automatically predicted! 

| Model           | F1  |  Paper | Code | Note | 
| ------------- | :-----:| --- | --- | --- | 
| VnCoreNLP (2018) [1] | 91.30 | [VnCoreNLP: A Vietnamese Natural Language Processing Toolkit](http://aclweb.org/anthology/N18-5012) | [Official](https://github.com/vncorenlp/VnCoreNLP) | Pre-trained embeddings learned from Vietnamese Wikipedia corpus |
| BiLSTM-CRF + CNN-char  (2016) [1] | 91.09 | [End-to-end Sequence Labeling via Bi-directional LSTM-CNNs-CRF](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P16-1101) | [Official](https://github.com/XuezheMax/LasagneNLP) / [Link](https://github.com/UKPLab/emnlp2017-bilstm-cnn-crf/)  | Pre-trained embeddings learned from Vietnamese Wikipedia corpus | 
| VNER (2019) | 89.58 | [Attentive Neural Network for Named Entity Recognition in Vietnamese](https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.13097) | | 
| VnCoreNLP (2018) | 88.55 | [VnCoreNLP: A Vietnamese Natural Language Processing Toolkit](http://aclweb.org/anthology/N18-5012) | [Official](https://github.com/vncorenlp/VnCoreNLP) | Pre-trained embeddings learned from Baomoi corpus |
| BiLSTM-CRF + CNN-char  (2016) [2] | 88.28 | [End-to-end Sequence Labeling via Bi-directional LSTM-CNNs-CRF](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P16-1101) | [Official](https://github.com/XuezheMax/LasagneNLP) / [Link](https://github.com/UKPLab/emnlp2017-bilstm-cnn-crf/) | Pre-trained embeddings learned from Baomoi corpus |
| BiLSTM-CRF + LSTM-char (2016) [2] | 87.71 | [Neural Architectures for Named Entity Recognition](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/N16-1030) | [Link](https://github.com/UKPLab/emnlp2017-bilstm-cnn-crf/) | Pre-trained embeddings learned from Baomoi corpus |
| BiLSTM-CRF (2015) [2] | 86.48 | [Bidirectional LSTM-CRF Models for Sequence Tagging](https://arxiv.org/abs/1508.01991) | [Link](https://github.com/UKPLab/emnlp2017-bilstm-cnn-crf/) | Pre-trained embeddings learned from Baomoi corpus |

* [1] denotes that scores are reported in  "[ETNLP: a visual-aided systematic approach to select pre-trained embeddings for a downstream task](https://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04433)"
* [2] denotes that BiLSTM-CRF-based scores are reported in  "[VnCoreNLP: A Vietnamese Natural Language Processing Toolkit](http://aclweb.org/anthology/N18-5012)"

## Part-of-speech tagging 

* 27,870 sentences for training and development from the VLSP 2013 POS tagging shared task:
  *  27k sentences are used for training.
  *  870 sentences are used for development.
* Test data: 2120 test sentences from the VLSP 2013 POS tagging shared task.

| Model           | Accuracy  |  Paper | Code | 
| ------------- | :-----:| --- | --- | 
| jointWPD (2018) | 95.97 | [A neural joint model for Vietnamese word segmentation, POS tagging and dependency parsing](https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.11459) | | 
| VnCoreNLP-VnMarMoT (2017) | 95.88 | [From Word Segmentation to POS Tagging for Vietnamese](http://aclweb.org/anthology/U17-1013) | [Official](https://github.com/datquocnguyen/vnmarmot) | 
| jPTDP-v2 (2018) | 95.70 | [An improved neural network model for joint POS tagging and dependency parsing](http://aclweb.org/anthology/K18-2008) | | 
| BiLSTM-CRF + CNN-char  (2016) | 95.40 | [End-to-end Sequence Labeling via Bi-directional LSTM-CNNs-CRF](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P16-1101) | [Official](https://github.com/XuezheMax/LasagneNLP) /  [Link](https://github.com/UKPLab/emnlp2017-bilstm-cnn-crf/) | 
| BiLSTM-CRF + LSTM-char (2016) | 95.31 | [Neural Architectures for Named Entity Recognition](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/N16-1030) | [Link](https://github.com/UKPLab/emnlp2017-bilstm-cnn-crf/) | 
| BiLSTM-CRF (2015) | 95.06 | [Bidirectional LSTM-CRF Models for Sequence Tagging](https://arxiv.org/abs/1508.01991) | [Link](https://github.com/UKPLab/emnlp2017-bilstm-cnn-crf/) | 
| RDRPOSTagger (2014) | 95.11 |  [RDRPOSTagger: A Ripple Down Rules-based Part-Of-Speech Tagger](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/E14-2005) | [Official](https://github.com/datquocnguyen/rdrpostagger) | 

* Result for jPTDP-v2 is reported in "[A neural joint model for Vietnamese word segmentation, POS tagging and dependency parsing](https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.11459)." 
* Results for BiLSTM-CRF-based models and RDRPOSTagger are reported in  "[From Word Segmentation to POS Tagging for Vietnamese](http://aclweb.org/anthology/U17-1013)."

## Word segmentation 

* Training & development data: 75k manually word-segmented training sentences from the [VLSP](http://vlsp.org.vn/) 2013 word segmentation shared task.
* Test data: 2120 test sentences from the VLSP 2013 POS tagging shared task.

| Model           | F1  |  Paper | Code | 
| ------------- | :-----:| --- | --- | 
| VnCoreNLP-RDRsegmenter (2018) | 97.90 | [A Fast and Accurate Vietnamese Word Segmenter](http://www.lrec-conf.org/proceedings/lrec2018/pdf/55.pdf) | [Official](https://github.com/datquocnguyen/RDRsegmenter) | 
| UETsegmenter (2016) | 97.87 | [A hybrid approach to Vietnamese word segmentation](http://doi.org/10.1109/RIVF.2016.7800279) | [Official](https://github.com/phongnt570/UETsegmenter) |
| jointWPD (2018) | 97.81 | [A neural joint model for Vietnamese word segmentation, POS tagging and dependency parsing](https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.11459) | | 
| vnTokenizer (2008) | 97.33 | [A Hybrid Approach to Word Segmentation of Vietnamese Texts](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-540-88282-4_23) |  |
| JVnSegmenter (2006) | 97.06 | [Vietnamese Word Segmentation with CRFs and SVMs: An Investigation](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/Y06-1028) |  |
| DongDu (2012) | 96.90 |  [Ứng dụng phương pháp Pointwise vào bài toán tách từ cho tiếng Việt](https://tiengvietmenyeu.wordpress.com/2013/02/16/ung%C2%B7dung-phuong%C2%B7phap-pointwise-vao-bai%C2%B7toan-tach-tu-cho-tieng%C2%B7viet/) |  |

* Results for VnTokenizer, JVnSegmenter and DongDu are reported in "[A hybrid approach to Vietnamese word segmentation](http://doi.org/10.1109/RIVF.2016.7800279)."

Commit message:

Update Vietnamese machine translation results

vietnamese/vietnamese.md, after:

# Vietnamese NLP tasks

## Dependency parsing

* Experiments employ the [benchmark Vietnamese dependency treebank VnDT](http://vndp.sourceforge.net) of 10K+ sentences, using  1,020 sentences for test, 200 sentences for development and the remaining sentences for training. LAS and UAS scores are computed on all tokens (i.e. including punctuation). 

#### VnDT v1.1:

| | Model           | LAS |  UAS  |  Paper | Code | 
| ----- | ------------- | :-----:| --- | --- | --- |
| **Predicted POS** | Biaffine (2017) | 74.99 | 81.19 | [Deep Biaffine Attention for Neural Dependency Parsing](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.01734) |  | 
| **Predicted POS** | jointWPD (2018) | 73.90 | 80.12 | [A neural joint model for Vietnamese word segmentation, POS tagging and dependency parsing](https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.11459)  |  | 
| **Predicted POS** | jPTDP-v2 (2018) |  73.12 | 79.63 | [An improved neural network model for joint POS tagging and dependency parsing](http://aclweb.org/anthology/K18-2008) |  | 
| **Predicted POS** | VnCoreNLP (2018) | 71.38 | 77.35 | [VnCoreNLP: A Vietnamese Natural Language Processing Toolkit](http://aclweb.org/anthology/N18-5012) | [Official](https://github.com/vncorenlp/VnCoreNLP) | 

* Results on the VnDT v1.1 for Biaffine, jPTDP-v2 and VnCoreNLP are reported in the jointWPD paper "[A neural joint model for Vietnamese word segmentation, POS tagging and dependency parsing](https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.11459)."

#### VnDT v1.0:

| | Model           | LAS |  UAS  |  Paper | Code | 
| ----- | ------------- | :-----:| --- | --- | --- |
| **Predicted POS** | VnCoreNLP (2018) | 70.23 | 76.93 | [VnCoreNLP: A Vietnamese Natural Language Processing Toolkit](http://aclweb.org/anthology/N18-5012) | [Official](https://github.com/vncorenlp/VnCoreNLP) | 
| Gold POS | VnCoreNLP (2018) |73.39 |79.02 | [VnCoreNLP: A Vietnamese Natural Language Processing Toolkit](http://aclweb.org/anthology/N18-5012) | [Official](https://github.com/vncorenlp/VnCoreNLP) | 
| Gold POS | BIST BiLSTM graph-based parser (2016) | 73.17|79.39 | [Simple and Accurate Dependency Parsing Using Bidirectional LSTM Feature Representations](https://aclweb.org/anthology/Q16-1023) | [Official](https://github.com/elikip/bist-parser/tree/master/bmstparser/src) | 
| Gold POS | BIST BiLSTM transition-based parser (2016) | 72.53| 79.33 | [Simple and Accurate Dependency Parsing Using Bidirectional LSTM Feature Representations](https://aclweb.org/anthology/Q16-1023) | [Official](https://github.com/elikip/bist-parser/tree/master/barchybrid/src) | 
| Gold POS | MSTparser (2006) | 70.29 | 76.47 | [Online large-margin training of dependency parsers](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P05-1012) | | 
| Gold POS | MaltParser (2007) | 69.10 | 74.91 | [MaltParser: A language-independent system for datadriven dependency parsing](https://stp.lingfil.uu.se/~nivre/docs/nle07.pdf) | | 


* Results for the BIST graph/transition-based parsers, MSTparser and MaltParser are reported in "[An empirical study for Vietnamese dependency parsing](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/U16-1017)."

## Machine translation

### English-Vietnamese translation
* Dataset is from [The IWSLT 2015 Evaluation Campaign](http://workshop2015.iwslt.org/downloads/proceeding.pdf), also be obtained from [https://github.com/tensorflow/nmt](https://github.com/tensorflow/nmt).

##### English-to-Vietnamese & `tst2015` is used for test

| Model           | BLEU  |  Paper | Code | 
| ------------- | :-----:| --- | --- | 
| BPE-Dropout (2019) | 33.3 | [BPE-Dropout: Simple and Effective Subword Regularization](https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.13267) | | 
| Nguyen and Salazar (2019) | 32.8 | [Transformers without Tears: Improving the Normalization of Self-Attention](https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.05895) | [Official](https://github.com/tnq177/transformers_without_tears) | 
| Stanford (2015) |26.4 | [Stanford Neural Machine Translation Systems for Spoken Language Domains](https://nlp.stanford.edu/pubs/luong-manning-iwslt15.pdf) | | 


##### English-to-Vietnamese & `tst2013` is used for test

| Model           | BLEU  |  Paper | Code | 
| ------------- | :-----:| --- | --- | 
| CVT (2018) | 29.6 | [Semi-Supervised Sequence Modeling with Cross-View Training](https://arxiv.org/abs/1809.08370) |  |
| ELMo (2018) | 29.3 | [Deep contextualized word representations](http://aclweb.org/anthology/N18-1202)| | 
| Transformer (2017) | 28.9 | [Attention is all you need](http://papers.nips.cc/paper/7181-attention-is-all-you-need) | [Link](https://github.com/duyvuleo/Transformer-DyNet) | 
| Google (2017) | 26.1 | [Neural machine translation (seq2seq) tutorial](https://github.com/tensorflow/nmt)  | [Official](https://github.com/tensorflow/nmt) | 
| Stanford (2015) |23.3 | [Stanford Neural Machine Translation Systems for Spoken Language Domains](https://nlp.stanford.edu/pubs/luong-manning-iwslt15.pdf) | | 

* The ELMo score is reported in [Semi-Supervised Sequence Modeling with Cross-View Training](https://arxiv.org/abs/1809.08370). The Transformer score is available at  [https://github.com/duyvuleo/Transformer-DyNet](https://github.com/duyvuleo/Transformer-DyNet).

##### Vietnamese-to-English

| Model           | BLEU  |  Paper | Code | 
| ------------- | :-----:| --- | --- | 
| BPE-Dropout (2019) | 32.99 | [BPE-Dropout: Simple and Effective Subword Regularization](https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.13267) | | 


## Named entity recognition
* 16,861 sentences for training and development from the VLSP 2016 NER shared task:
  *  14,861 sentences are used for training.
  *  2k sentences are used for development.
* Test data: 2,831 test sentences from the VLSP 2016 NER  shared task.
* **NOTE** that in the VLSP 2016 NER data, each word representing a full personal name are separated into syllables that constitute the word. The VLSP 2016 NER data also consists of gold POS and chunking tags as [reconfirmed by VLSP 2016 organizers](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1XzrgPw13N4C_B6yrQy_7qIxl8Bqf7Uqi/view?usp=sharing). This scheme results in an unrealistic scenario for a pipeline evaluation: 
  * The standard annotation for Vietnamese word segmentation and POS tagging forms each full name as a word token, thus all   word segmenters have been trained to output a full name as a word and all POS taggers have been trained to assign a POS label to the entire full-name.
  * Gold POS and chunking tags are NOT available in a real-world application.
* For a realistic scenario, contiguous syllables constituting a full name are merged to form a word. POS/chunking tags--if used--have to be automatically predicted! 

| Model           | F1  |  Paper | Code | Note | 
| ------------- | :-----:| --- | --- | --- | 
| VnCoreNLP (2018) [1] | 91.30 | [VnCoreNLP: A Vietnamese Natural Language Processing Toolkit](http://aclweb.org/anthology/N18-5012) | [Official](https://github.com/vncorenlp/VnCoreNLP) | Pre-trained embeddings learned from Vietnamese Wikipedia corpus |
| BiLSTM-CRF + CNN-char  (2016) [1] | 91.09 | [End-to-end Sequence Labeling via Bi-directional LSTM-CNNs-CRF](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P16-1101) | [Official](https://github.com/XuezheMax/LasagneNLP) / [Link](https://github.com/UKPLab/emnlp2017-bilstm-cnn-crf/)  | Pre-trained embeddings learned from Vietnamese Wikipedia corpus | 
| VNER (2019) | 89.58 | [Attentive Neural Network for Named Entity Recognition in Vietnamese](https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.13097) | | 
| VnCoreNLP (2018) | 88.55 | [VnCoreNLP: A Vietnamese Natural Language Processing Toolkit](http://aclweb.org/anthology/N18-5012) | [Official](https://github.com/vncorenlp/VnCoreNLP) | Pre-trained embeddings learned from Baomoi corpus |
| BiLSTM-CRF + CNN-char  (2016) [2] | 88.28 | [End-to-end Sequence Labeling via Bi-directional LSTM-CNNs-CRF](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P16-1101) | [Official](https://github.com/XuezheMax/LasagneNLP) / [Link](https://github.com/UKPLab/emnlp2017-bilstm-cnn-crf/) | Pre-trained embeddings learned from Baomoi corpus |
| BiLSTM-CRF + LSTM-char (2016) [2] | 87.71 | [Neural Architectures for Named Entity Recognition](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/N16-1030) | [Link](https://github.com/UKPLab/emnlp2017-bilstm-cnn-crf/) | Pre-trained embeddings learned from Baomoi corpus |
| BiLSTM-CRF (2015) [2] | 86.48 | [Bidirectional LSTM-CRF Models for Sequence Tagging](https://arxiv.org/abs/1508.01991) | [Link](https://github.com/UKPLab/emnlp2017-bilstm-cnn-crf/) | Pre-trained embeddings learned from Baomoi corpus |

* [1] denotes that scores are reported in  "[ETNLP: a visual-aided systematic approach to select pre-trained embeddings for a downstream task](https://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04433)"
* [2] denotes that BiLSTM-CRF-based scores are reported in  "[VnCoreNLP: A Vietnamese Natural Language Processing Toolkit](http://aclweb.org/anthology/N18-5012)"

## Part-of-speech tagging 

* 27,870 sentences for training and development from the VLSP 2013 POS tagging shared task:
  *  27k sentences are used for training.
  *  870 sentences are used for development.
* Test data: 2120 test sentences from the VLSP 2013 POS tagging shared task.

| Model           | Accuracy  |  Paper | Code | 
| ------------- | :-----:| --- | --- | 
| jointWPD (2018) | 95.97 | [A neural joint model for Vietnamese word segmentation, POS tagging and dependency parsing](https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.11459) | | 
| VnCoreNLP-VnMarMoT (2017) | 95.88 | [From Word Segmentation to POS Tagging for Vietnamese](http://aclweb.org/anthology/U17-1013) | [Official](https://github.com/datquocnguyen/vnmarmot) | 
| jPTDP-v2 (2018) | 95.70 | [An improved neural network model for joint POS tagging and dependency parsing](http://aclweb.org/anthology/K18-2008) | | 
| BiLSTM-CRF + CNN-char  (2016) | 95.40 | [End-to-end Sequence Labeling via Bi-directional LSTM-CNNs-CRF](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P16-1101) | [Official](https://github.com/XuezheMax/LasagneNLP) /  [Link](https://github.com/UKPLab/emnlp2017-bilstm-cnn-crf/) | 
| BiLSTM-CRF + LSTM-char (2016) | 95.31 | [Neural Architectures for Named Entity Recognition](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/N16-1030) | [Link](https://github.com/UKPLab/emnlp2017-bilstm-cnn-crf/) | 
| BiLSTM-CRF (2015) | 95.06 | [Bidirectional LSTM-CRF Models for Sequence Tagging](https://arxiv.org/abs/1508.01991) | [Link](https://github.com/UKPLab/emnlp2017-bilstm-cnn-crf/) | 
| RDRPOSTagger (2014) | 95.11 |  [RDRPOSTagger: A Ripple Down Rules-based Part-Of-Speech Tagger](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/E14-2005) | [Official](https://github.com/datquocnguyen/rdrpostagger) | 

* Result for jPTDP-v2 is reported in "[A neural joint model for Vietnamese word segmentation, POS tagging and dependency parsing](https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.11459)." 
* Results for BiLSTM-CRF-based models and RDRPOSTagger are reported in  "[From Word Segmentation to POS Tagging for Vietnamese](http://aclweb.org/anthology/U17-1013)."

## Word segmentation 

* Training & development data: 75k manually word-segmented training sentences from the [VLSP](http://vlsp.org.vn/) 2013 word segmentation shared task.
* Test data: 2120 test sentences from the VLSP 2013 POS tagging shared task.

| Model           | F1  |  Paper | Code | 
| ------------- | :-----:| --- | --- | 
| VnCoreNLP-RDRsegmenter (2018) | 97.90 | [A Fast and Accurate Vietnamese Word Segmenter](http://www.lrec-conf.org/proceedings/lrec2018/pdf/55.pdf) | [Official](https://github.com/datquocnguyen/RDRsegmenter) | 
| UETsegmenter (2016) | 97.87 | [A hybrid approach to Vietnamese word segmentation](http://doi.org/10.1109/RIVF.2016.7800279) | [Official](https://github.com/phongnt570/UETsegmenter) |
| jointWPD (2018) | 97.81 | [A neural joint model for Vietnamese word segmentation, POS tagging and dependency parsing](https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.11459) | | 
| vnTokenizer (2008) | 97.33 | [A Hybrid Approach to Word Segmentation of Vietnamese Texts](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-540-88282-4_23) |  |
| JVnSegmenter (2006) | 97.06 | [Vietnamese Word Segmentation with CRFs and SVMs: An Investigation](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/Y06-1028) |  |
| DongDu (2012) | 96.90 |  [Ứng dụng phương pháp Pointwise vào bài toán tách từ cho tiếng Việt](https://tiengvietmenyeu.wordpress.com/2013/02/16/ung%C2%B7dung-phuong%C2%B7phap-pointwise-vao-bai%C2%B7toan-tach-tu-cho-tieng%C2%B7viet/) |  |

* Results for VnTokenizer, JVnSegmenter and DongDu are reported in "[A hybrid approach to Vietnamese word segmentation](http://doi.org/10.1109/RIVF.2016.7800279)."
